---
id: '192'
title: Talentpool Listed in 20 Most Promising Enterprise Software Companies
slug: talentpool-listed-in-20-most-promising-enterprise
excerpt: "> _Talentpool recognized in 20 most Promising Enterprise\_Software Companies by CIO Review_\n\n**Pune,\_March 09, 2016**: Talentpool has been listed as one of the top\_20 most promising Enterprise compani..."
author:
  name: Poushali Ganguly
  role: Business Head
  avatar: >-
    https://www.thetalentpool.ai/wp-content/uploads/2024/10/Poushali-Gangulyimage.webp
publishedAt: 2016-03-10T00:00:00.000Z
readTime: 6 min read
category: press-release
tags: &ref_0
  - easyrecruitment
  - mostpromisingenterpriseats
  - recruitmentsoftwareindia
  - talentpool
  - webrecruitmentsoftware
featuredImage: ''
featured: false
seo:
  metaTitle: Talentpool Listed in 20 Most Promising Enterprise Software Companies
  metaDescription: "> _Talentpool recognized in 20 most Promising Enterprise\_Software Companies by CIO Review_\n\n**Pune,\_March 09, 2016**: Talentpool has been listed as one of the top\_20 most promising Enterprise compani..."
  keywords: *ref_0
---

> _Talentpool recognized in 20 most Promising Enterprise Software Companies by CIO Review_

**Pune, March 09, 2016**: Talentpool has been listed as one of the top 20 most promising Enterprise companies of 2016 by CIO Review. The CIO Review editorial team selected the most innovative and recognized companies from a pool of hundreds across India. CIO Review also shared a success story of Talentpool with Xoriant Solutions Pvt. Ltd. Xoriant Solutions chose Talentpool to get a single recruitment platform for a globally distributed company like theirs, which made the standard hiring process a lot easier. The platform not only enabled Xoriant a bird’s eye view of the recruitment team’s work, but also provided the status of the user’s position as soon as they logged in.

> For the rest of the CIO Review magazine article, please click [_**here**_](http://www.cioreviewindia.com/magazine/Talentpool-Accelerating-Recruitment-and-Delivering-Higher-Throughput-to-Enterprises-JVDN91763349.html)

<!--more--> “We are proud to be listed as one of the top 20 most promising Enterprise companies and will continue to enable our customers enhance their recruitment efficiency and performance.” says Ashish Turkane, CEO of Talentpool. Talentpool’s uniqueness lies in the fact that it was built primarily for the recruiters to ease the manual process of recruitment. “With the ability to configure around 90% of the solution as per the organization’s need, Talentpool can be adopted by any business from any vertical”, adds Ashish. Talentpool offers flexible pricing and deployment options for its customers. Customers have all the flexibility to choose the payment model as per their requirement and use. Talentpool gets implemented within a short time period and delivers higher throughput to the companies thus helping the companies reduce its capital expenditure. **About CIO Review:** CIO review magazine is a technology magazine that talks about the enterprise solutions that redefines business goals of upcoming enterprises. It also offers a platform for the enterprise to showcase their innovative solutions. **About Talentpool**: Talentica Software launched Talentpool in 2006. [Talentpool](https://www.thetalentpool.ai/) is a comprehensive recruitment solution designed specifically for large organizations who need an easily configurable software to adapt to their processes and save expensive customizations. Headquartered in Pune, Talentpool Software has offices in Bangalore, Mumbai, now in Delhi and an operational presence in Hyderabad and Chennai. For more information on Talentpool, visit [www.thetalentpool.co.in](https://www.thetalentpool.ai). 

<script type="application/ld+json"><br /> { "@context": "http://schema.org",<br /> "@type": "BlogPosting",<br /> "mainEntityOfPage": {<br /> "@type": "WebPage",<br /> "@id": "https://www.thetalentpool.ai/"<br /> },<br /> "headline": "Top 5 Techniques to Pace Up Your Speed of Hire!",<br /> "alternativeHeadline": "This is the very reason why, you need to increase your hiring speed so that you can claim all the quality candidates pronto! Simultaneously, the quality of hire also improves!",<br /> "award": "",<br /> "image": {<br /> "@type": "ImageObject",<br /> "url":"https://www.thetalentpool.ai/images/logo.png",<br /> "height": 800,<br /> "width": 800},<br /> "editor": "Talent Pool",<br /> "genre": "Recruitment",<br /> "keywords": "Recruiting Software, Employment,Top 5 technique for recruitment",<br /> "wordcount": "640",<br /> "publisher": {<br /> "@type": "Organization",<br /> "name": "Talent Pool",<br /> "logo": {<br /> "@type": "ImageObject",<br /> "url": "https://www.thetalentpool.ai/images/logo.png",<br /> "width": 600,<br /> "height": 60<br /> }<br /> },<br /> "url": "https://www.thetalentpool.ai/top-5-techniques-to-pace-up-your-speed-of-hire/",<br /> "datePublished": "2016-02-12",<br /> "dateCreated": "2016-02-12",<br /> "dateModified": "2016-02-12",<br /> "description": "High quality candidates are never stable. They are in and out of the market quickly. This is the very reason why, you need to increase your hiring speed so that you can claim all the quality candidates pronto! Simultaneously, the quality of hire also improves!<br /> Of course, all the time goes in the screening and evaluation of the candidates, which is crucial. But, a slow hiring process is a colossal waste of time and a major distraction for the potential candidate.<br /> How do we avoid this? Make smaller changes in your existing process to see a drastic decrease in time to hire.<br /> 1. Make a List of “Most-Wanted” Candidates<br /> List down the list of candidates who match the niche skills to the T. Most candidates in this list would be passive so plan and follow a series of communication that you would send them in the next quarter. It could be a birthday message, a personalized job notification or simply a company update through a newsletter.<br /> 2. Track All Profiles That You Receive From All Sources<br /> Start focusing on your existing database, employee referrals and your career page as the primary source of profiles instead of job portals and vendors. Ensure that you market your organization well enough to get quality inbound enquiries.<br /> To do that, pay attention to:<br /> Job Descriptions – Write them differently for each position. Don’t rely on the JDs that were written years ago by your predecessors.<br /> Social Media Updates – Candidates try to get a hint about the company culture through the social media pages. Push regular updates which are well thought of and well-written to convey the right message.<br /> Website Career Page – Don’t just publish vision, mission and current openings. Make videos and publish testimonials from current employees.<br /> 3. Measure Time Spent at Each Stage of Recruitment<br /> Don’t just calculate cumulative ageing of a position from the day it was opened to the day the position was closed. Calculate the time spent at each stage so that you know the stage(s) where the hiring process becomes the slowest. Concentrate on parameters that will show you the gaps clearly. Time to Start (TTS), Time to Fill (TTF) and Time to Accept Offer.<br /> 4. Go Digital!<br /> Manual processes provide sufficient tools to keep going but they hardly help teams improve efficiency or performance. Automate and streamline your hiring process to track and get the valuable data. Hiring professionals can leverage this data to monitor the health of their recruiting efforts and take corrective actions.<br /> 5. Post-Offer Engagement<br /> Once the candidate accepts offer, recruiters often move on to the next open position. It is imperative to engage with the candidate post offer acceptance to help candidates manage change seamlessly. Providing a good candidate experience can actually prove to either win your candidate’s trust and interest or just drive him away. This is especially important for senior level hires.<br /> These recruitment actions will surely accelerate your hiring speed. Working on these gaps will surely impact your time to hire considerably.<br /> Happy Hiring!",<br /> "author": {<br /> "@type": "Organization",<br /> "name": "Admin"<br /> }<br /> }<br /></script>
